---
title: Antarctic Ice Melting
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---
# Evaluation of *Everything Climate* Article
  This article argues that ice melt in Antarctica and Greenland is not serious. The article does address both sides of the argument, beginning with the stance that Antarctic ice melt is dangerous. This section gives information cited from USA Today, NASA, IPCC, and BBC News on the detrimental effects of antarctic ice melt, and how ice mass and sea levels are changing over time. Once this information is stated, the article goes on to the next section and the opposing view, which gives information from a report published in the journal *Nature* by scientists at Columbia University and University of Victoria, BC. The information from this report suggests that, “the Antarctic continent has not warmed in the last seven decades”, and that over the past several decades “Antarctic sea ice area has moderately expanded”. The article uses this information, along with pieces of information from sources such as Live Science, U.S. Geological Survey, and AGU Journals to show an idea of “reality vs. what the media shows us” and ultimately to state that “the hype is a typical overreaction to a small fluctuation which is not statistically significant”. 
  
  This article is of particular interest to me because it seems to present an argument with evidence from credible sources, even though I have never before seen published pieces claiming this opposing view to the seriousness of climate change affecting Antarctic ice melt. Because of this, this article made me think about the possibility that my views are being skewed by what the media and climate change advocates want the public to see. 
  
  The basis of this article seems sound, but upon further inspection there are some discrepancies that make the article a lot less credible overall. First of all, the article is published on the Everything Climate website, which is known to dispute many generally accepted climate claims, and is also not a peer-reviewed site. There is also no author listed for writing this specific article, meaning that we do not know the qualifications/credibility of the person(s) who wrote the article. The purpose of the article seems to be to provide information, but also looks to persuade readers not to believe the ‘hype’ from other, potentially more mainstream and credible reports. Many of the references for the second section of the article are written in as hyperlinks for certain fragments of sentences or paragraphs, instead of as citations. There is a clear disconnect between the referenced articles and the point that this article is trying to make. The article uses credible sources to explain information about topics such as glacial and interglacial periods and even that ice loss in Antarctica and Greenland has increased sixfold over the last 30 years, but follow this up with the idea that ‘six times almost no ice loss remains almost no ice loss”. The only article referenced that supports the stance that this article is trying to take is the *Nature* report, and it seems that the author(s) have based their entire, controversial if you will, argument on this information, while supplementing many more sources for the non-controversial information that sets up their claims. In this way as well, this article appears to be quite biased since the author(s) are trying to make their information seem more credible in order to sway the reader into believing this point of view without any original research or extensive data sharing this view. 
### Reference  
  Everything Climate, 2020. *Antarctic Ice Melt.* [online] Everything Climate. Available at: <https://everythingclimate.org/topics/antarctic-ice-melt/> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].
